Feat/tm playwright first mile (#2322)
UiPath/skills: skills/uipath-test/SKILL.md

---
name: uipath-test

> description: "UiPath Test Manager — manage test projects, cases, sets, executions; generate reports; pack and run Playwright suites on serverless (tm pack, PW_* labels, --playwright-projects). For Orchestrator→uipath-platform. For Studio/RPA test automation authoring→uipath-rpa."

Reviewer: do not include commands here

Author: Done — the description no longer names commands; it just says the skill covers packaging and running external Playwright test suites (still enough for skill activation).

Author: Done — the description no longer names commands; it now just says the skill covers packaging and running external Playwright test suites, which is still enough for skill activation.

- **Test case logs** - Logs of a **test case** in an execution. A **testcase** can be navigated from **testcaselogs**.
- **Test step logs** — Step-level logs within a **test case log**.
- **Test case log assertions** - Assertion steps of a test case log in an execution.

> - **External (Playwright) test packages** - A Playwright suite packed with `uip tm pack --type playwright` and uploaded to Orchestrator. Ingestion then auto-creates one test case per Playwright test (no link step) and labels each with `PW_Tag_*`, `PW_Project_*`, `PW_Suite_*`, `PW_File_*`. These run on serverless cloud runtimes — see [references/playwright-first-mile-guide.md](references/playwright-first-mile-guide.md).

Reviewer: This section just describes what every term in the test manager means, so avoid adding commands here.

Author: Agreed — the concept now describes the term only, no commands.

| `uip tm testcases steps delete --project-key <PROJECT_KEY> --step-id <UUID> --yes` | Delete a step. |
| `uip tm testcases list-result-history --project-key <PROJECT_KEY> --test-case-id <TEST_CASE_ID>` | List test case log result history for a specific test case. Optional `--only-failed`, `--filter`, `--limit`, `--offset`. |
| `uip tm testcases run --project-key <PROJECT_KEY> --test-case-id <TEST_CASE_ID>` | Start a new execution for one or more test cases. **Uses `--test-case-id <UUID>` (space-separated for multiple).** Optional `--async`, `--name`, `--folder-key`, `--robot-user-key`, `--machine-key`. |

> | `uip tm testcases add --test-set-key <TEST_SET_KEY> (--test-case-keys <KEY1,KEY2,...> \| --labels <name...>)` | Add test cases to a test set — by explicit keys, OR every test case carrying at least one of the given labels (variadic, space-separated; quote names containing spaces; OR-match, exact, case-sensitive). Pass exactly one of the two selectors. |

Reviewer: Could say; both options are mutually execlusive.

Author: Reworded to 'The two selectors are mutually exclusive.'

> | `uip tm testcases add --test-set-key <TEST_SET_KEY> (--test-case-keys <KEY...> \| --labels <name...>)` | Add test cases to a test set — by explicit keys, OR every test case carrying at least one of the given labels. Both selectors are variadic and space-separated (comma-separated keys still accepted; quote label names containing spaces). Label matching is OR, exact and case-sensitive. The two selectors are mutually exclusive. |

Reviewer: Add little bit elaborate syntax like Key1,key2; label1,labe2

Author: Added examples for both: --test-case-keys DEMO:1 DEMO:2 (comma form still accepted) and --labels PW_Tag_smoke "PW_Suite_Checkout flow" for the quoting case.

> | `uip tm testcases add --test-set-key <TEST_SET_KEY> (--test-case-keys <KEY...> \| --labels <name...>)` | Add test cases to a test set — by explicit keys, OR every test case carrying at least one of the given labels. Both selectors are variadic and space-separated — `--test-case-keys DEMO:1 DEMO:2` (comma-separated `DEMO:1,DEMO:2` still accepted), `--labels PW_Tag_smoke "PW_Suite_Checkout flow"` (quote names containing spaces). Label matching is OR, exact and case-sensitive. The two selectors are mutually exclusive. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `uip tm testcases add --test-set-key <TEST_SET_KEY> (--test-case-keys <KEY1,KEY2,...> \| --labels <Label1,Label2,...>)` | Add test cases to a test set — by explicit keys, OR every test case carrying at least one of the given labels. Both selectors are variadic and space-separated — `--test-case-keys DEMO:1 DEMO:2` (comma-separated `DEMO:1,DEMO:2` still accepted), `--labels PW_Tag_smoke "PW_Suite_Checkout flow"` (quote names containing spaces). Label matching is OR, exact and case-sensitive. The two selectors are mutually exclusive. |
```

Reviewer 2: Took the fuller placeholders, with one correction: labels are not comma-splittable. The CLI splits --test-case-keys on commas but not --labels, so `--labels A,B` is read as a single label named "A,B". Verified live — it fails with "No test cases carry any of the labels: PW_Tag_smoke,PW_File_tests/orders.spec.ts" while the same two space-separated add both test cases. The row now shows `<Label1> <Label2> …` and states the asymmetry explicitly, since silently matching nothing is a nasty trap.

| `uip tm testsets update --test-set-key <TEST_SET_KEY> --name <TEST_SET_NAME>` | Update a test set name or description. |
| `uip tm testsets delete --test-set-key <TEST_SET_KEY>` | Delete a test set by its key. |
| `uip tm testsets list-testcases --project-key <PROJECT_KEY> --test-set-key <TEST_SET_KEY>` | List test cases assigned to a test set. |

> | `uip tm testsets run --test-set-key <TEST_SET_KEY>` | Run a test set and return the execution ID. Optional `--execution-type <automated\|manual\|mixed\|none>` (default `automated`), `--input-path <FILE>` for parameter overrides, `--wait` to block until terminal. For Playwright test sets, optional `--playwright-projects <names...>` (hidden from `--help`; see below). |

Reviewer: `--wait` to block until terminal.  -> this is generic option; should not go here!

Author: Removed — the run row is back to its original text; --wait is generic and stays out of it.

> | `uip tm testsets run --test-set-key <TEST_SET_KEY>` | Run a test set and return the execution ID. Optional `--execution-type <automated\|manual\|mixed\|none>` (default `automated`), `--input-path <FILE>` for parameter overrides, `--wait` to block until terminal. For Playwright test sets, optional `--playwright-projects <names...>` (hidden from `--help`; see below). |

Reviewer: (hidden from `--help`; see below). -> this is questionable. We are telling coding agent that it is there and use it but hiding it from the cli. This would again bring the scenario that if it is not available in the prod; coding agent would still try it because of this skill.

Author: You're right, and I checked: the published test-manager-tool (1.198.0) has no Playwright support at all, so anything documented here would fail for every user today. Removed the row/flag mentions and all 'hidden from --help' guidance from SKILL.md. The reference guide now opens with an availability gate: probe the CLI first, stop if the capability is absent, and if the optional project-scoping commands are missing, run the test set without scoping instead of retrying — so no instruction to call something help does not list.

> | `uip tm testsets playwright-context --test-set-key <TEST_SET_KEY>` | Probe whether a test set is a Playwright test set: returns `IsPlaywright` plus the available/selected Playwright project names. Hidden from `--help` but functional. See [references/playwright-first-mile-guide.md](references/playwright-first-mile-guide.md). |

Reviewer: same comment for the --help!

Author: Same fix — the playwright-context row is gone from SKILL.md.

> Keys use the format `PROJECT_KEY:NUMBER` (e.g., `INV:42`). To add or remove test cases in a test set, use `uip tm testcases add` / `uip tm testcases remove` — those verbs live under the `testcases` group, not under `testsets`.

> > **Playwright test sets:** `--playwright-projects <names...>` (space-separated, case-sensitive `playwright.config` project names) runs only the selected projects and persists the selection on the test set. It requires every test case in the set to come from one single Playwright package; unknown names fail fast listing the valid ones. Probe first with `uip tm testsets playwright-context` and branch on `IsPlaywright`. Full pipeline: [references/playwright-first-mile-guide.md](references/playwright-first-mile-guide.md).

Reviewer: Should it go here?

Author: No — removed. The project-selection detail lives only in the reference guide, behind the availability gate.

| Command | Purpose |
|---|---|

> | `uip tm report get --execution-id <EXECUTION_ID> (--project-key <KEY> \| --test-set-key <KEY>)` | Get a summary report for a completed test execution. One of `--project-key`/`--test-set-key` is required to identify the project. Optional `--query`. |

Reviewer: Can you validate this locally?
Optional `--query` should also get removed (should have been removed from the parent as well :) as it is common option across commands )

Author: Validated locally: 'uip tm report get --execution-id <id>' alone exits with 'Provide --project-key or --test-set-key to identify the project.', so the requirement is real — the row now records it (and cites the verification). --query removed, including from the original text.

|---|---|
| `uip tm result download --execution-id <EXECUTION_ID>` | Download test execution results as JUnit XML. Optional `--project-key`, `--test-set-key`, `--result-path <DIR>`. |

> ### Pack Commands (Playwright)

Reviewer: I think you also need to update readme.md of cli with these new commands. But make sure you update that only when the code is available in the prod.

Author: Agreed on both counts — noted as an action item, to be done when the commands are actually in prod (not in this PR). The Pack Commands section is also removed from SKILL.md for the same reason.

| Command | Purpose |
|---|---|

> | `uip tm pack --project-path <dir> --type playwright --project-key <PROJECT_KEY> --name <PackageName> --package-version <ver> -o <out-dir>` | Pack a Playwright suite into a `.nupkg` external test package. Requires a lockfile and `@playwright/test` in the project. `--project-key` targets the Test Manager project where ingestion auto-creates the test cases; `--no-create-test-cases` skips that; `--dry-run` previews. Upload with `uip or packages upload <nupkg>`. |

Reviewer: Does version have a specific syntax, if yes you could add it here and/or in the cli help for this command.

Author: Yes — checked it against the CLI: NuGet/SemVer style, three numeric parts with an optional prerelease suffix (1.0.0, 1.0.1-beta.1); 1.0 and non-numeric strings are rejected with "Invalid package version". Documented on the pack row and in the guide. Agreed the CLI help should say it too — that is a one-line change in the cli repo, happy to raise it.

1. **Always check login first** — run `uip login status --output json` before any Test Manager operation. If not authenticated, run `uip login` to sign in.
2. **Probe the CLI surface once per session, before the first `uip tm` command.** Run `uip tm testcases --help --output json` (any flags accepted). Result `Success` → post-rename CLI; use the command tables above as-is. `unknown command` / non-zero exit → pre-rename CLI; translate via the [Pre-rename fallbacks](#pre-rename-fallbacks) table before each call. Re-probe on any later `unknown command` error.

> 3. **Always pass `--output json`** to every `uip` command — no exceptions. Structured JSON output is what you need to reason about results reliably, even when you only plan to summarize them back to the user. Note: stdout may carry human progress lines *before* the JSON envelope (e.g. `Resolved project …`, run/wait progress) — when parsing, extract the JSON object rather than parsing stdout wholesale.

Reviewer: I think this change is not very necessary!

Author: Reverted — Rule 3 is back to its original text.

4. **Cap retries at 3** for any failing `uip` CLI command. After 3 failures, stop and report the error to the user (see Rule — never fall back to direct REST APIs).
5. **Handle empty results** — if a list command returns an empty array, stop and inform the user rather than proceeding with a null key.
6. **Confirm before delete** — always confirm the target resource key with the user before running any `delete` command. All delete commands require `--yes` (or `-y`) to proceed; omitting it exits without deleting.

> 7. **For operations requiring folder key** — when the user named a folder, look it up with `uip or folders list -n <folder-name> --all --output json`; when *choosing* a folder yourself, use the unflagged `uip or folders list --output json` (memberships only — `--all` includes folders you cannot actually use). Run `/uipath-platform` for folder management details.

Reviewer: This can rephrased I think!

Author: Rephrased: look up by name with 'folders list -n <name> --all' when the user named a folder; list without --all when picking one yourself, so you only see folders you are a member of.

  For more authentication details, run `/uipath-platform`.

### Confirm project scope

>   Ask the user for the project name or key before any Test Manager call (unless the task already names one or authorizes creating a new project). For multi-project scenarios, collect ALL names or keys in one prompt. Resolve each to a `PROJECT_KEY`:

Reviewer: This is not required I think. Coding agents are smart to deduce it by themselves.

Author: Reverted — the carve-out is gone.

| I want to... | Start here |
|---|---|
| **Generate a shareable test report** (tester or release manager view) | [references/test-result-report-guide.md](references/test-result-report-guide.md) |
| **Publish a project and link it to a Test Manager test case** (Studio/RPA) | [references/publish-and-link-guide.md](references/publish-and-link-guide.md) |
| **Pack, ingest, and run a Playwright suite on serverless** (pack → upload → labels → run) | [references/playwright-first-mile-guide.md](references/playwright-first-mile-guide.md) |

> > **Known CLI quirks:** a command can emit its JSON envelope and then sit before exiting (`[Telemetry] flush timed out`) — if you have the JSON, it succeeded. Auto-updater lines ("Checking for updates…") can precede the envelope, same hazard as progress lines (Rule #3). And `login status` can report "Logged in" (even with a stale `ExpirationDate`) while calls 401 — the non-interactive fix is `uip login refresh`; only fall back to interactive `uip login` if refresh fails.

Reviewer: This is not required!

Author: Removed.

## Anti-patterns

- **Do NOT proceed if authentication fails** — all Test Manager API calls require a valid bearer token. Fail fast rather than surfacing confusing 401 errors later.
- **Do NOT skip the surface probe** (Critical Rule #2). On a pre-rename CLI, post-rename commands fail with `unknown command`; on a post-rename CLI, pre-rename commands fail the same way. The skill targets the post-rename surface and falls back per the [Pre-rename fallbacks](#pre-rename-fallbacks) table. Picking the wrong shape without probing burns a retry on every call.
- **Do NOT guess command names — verb-noun composites are required.** The CLI uses explicit verb-noun forms; bare verbs do not exist. Confirm with `uip tm <resource> --help --output json`.
- **Do NOT `link-automation` Playwright test cases.** Playwright ingestion links them to the package automatically; the manual link step belongs to the Studio/RPA pipeline only.

> - **Do NOT conclude the Playwright commands are missing because `--help` omits them.** `uip tm testsets playwright-context` and `run --playwright-projects` are intentionally hidden until the capability is broadly available — they are functional. Probe by running them; on a Test Manager or CLI without the capability they fail with explicit instructions.

Reviewer: Same comment as before. It shouldn't be here. For the demo, you can load the local build of skills and showscase if needed. If we keep this in the skills, then by next Friday the next release branch will get cut and this will get released.

Author: Understood, and that release-cut timing is the deciding argument. All Playwright command surface is out of SKILL.md; the guide is availability-gated (probe, then stop or degrade). Happy to go further and hold the whole guide back if you would rather it not ship before the CLI does — say the word and I will trim the PR to the generic fixes only.
